# EdEssays

Assignment 1: Introduce Yourself
Who are you? Why are you taking this class? What do you hope to get out of this class? What experiences do you have with educational technology, as either the designer, the recipient, or some other stakeholder? Are there particular problems you’re interested in addressing in this class? Your Personal Statement is essentially an introduction to you. We’ll use it to tailor the course topics and library materials to common interests, to help match you with classmates that might be interested in working on similar problems, to connect you with a particular mentor if one is well-suited for your ideas, and to begin to brainstorm any steps that will need to be taken to support your goals.
The main goal of this assignment is more organizational than pedagogical: these Personal Statements will serve as valuable tools to use in organizing and structuring the class. This assignment also aims to build community, introduce you to your classmates, and provide information to the teaching team to pair you with the ideal mentor.
Your assignment should be approximately 500 words long. This is neither a minimum nor a maximum, but rather a heuristic to simply describe the level of depth we would like to see. Feel free to write more, or if you believe you can complete the assignment in fewer words, feel free to write less.

Hello, I am Prakash Bhatta originally from Nepal and currently working as a Devops engineer in St. Louis MO.  I come from a society where there are many people who are deprived from a good education system. In terms of education, the society is divided into “haves and haves not” where “haves not” cannot afford to get good education while the “haves” have all the resources but lot of them are being forced to pick a specific field(engineering/medicine) by their family or society. 

For underprivileged people, education is the only way that can bring positive changes in their life. But, it comes at a cost where its not affordable for them. Most of the public schools in the under developed countries rarely have good resources/teachers for providing good education to kids and education. 

For the privileged class- people who have all the resources, the south asian society has so much restriction and definition on what good education is. Most of the people at home (and for the south asian friends parents that I know of) love their children to ace their studies in math and science. Business, philosophy, art, music and humanities are not even a subject to study if you are a bright kid. 

We all humans are so much different in terms of our taste, interest and likes. How can a society teach all the good students just math and science and expect all of them the same results? As a kid, you hardly have a choice on what you want to study. Personally, I grew up reading just physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics entire my mid school and high school. We really had no freedom of choice for picking any subjects that what we loved. Let alone be freedom of choice, people were a herd who studied engineering or medicine to fulfill their parents dream. Few of them might have succeeded in this society because their interest aligned with their parent but I could see a lot of my friends struggling.  My friends were good at art and music but they were never encouraged to pursue their dreams.

Having seen and been in close knit with both privileged and underprivileged group, I believe this status quo is prevalent in most of the under developed and developing countries in south east asia and it makes me wonder how we might be able to tackle this problem. I think a lot of the problems will be solved if we are able to provide education at student’s finger tip for a bare minimum cost or entirely opportunities to get a job. This liberates people by enrolling themselves in the class what they like to study and will bring best in them.  Also for the “Haves” people having the platform that allows to learn about what they are passionate about will bring the best out from them and they can uplift their life vai work.  I personally believe that no who does not enjoy his work is highly unlikely to make any great strides in the field.

I have always been a firm believer that advent of cheaper Internet and education platform like EDX, MITEDx can help solve this problem.  Designing curriculums in such a way that can help students on the footsteps of getting job will contribute a lot to the “have nots” kids. Free subject matter classes will provide an interested individual to purse his goals and interests where they aspire to be. Lot of the individual might be in a situation where they are discontent with their work and maybe want to switch career later in life. This education system also facilitates this condition. Also this kind of platform setup and universal education facilitates more ideas, opinion at massive scale, which will enumerate more bright minds in the program.

Having such an opinion, I wanted to live by an example and I decided to be part of this community by enrolling myself in GTech OMSCS program.  I have always wanted to be the part of this community and serve the online education platform in one way or the other.  Be it be building a course curriculum or platform that help students to gain knowledge or an app the help students learn anything new will make me a better self as I feel I have contributed to this society.

Education Technology class will help me provide an oppourtinity to learn more about the existing communities and help me do a deep analysis of exisiting system and make a better ones. With this class I hope to create something or do some research analysis that will help grow this community at a scale even it be a very small one.



I have seen many people living in adversity  where education takes priority over anything else in an individual’s life. Either people are deprived of education because you cannot afford it or education is taught in forced nature without allowing kids to choose what they like to study. 

The public education where I come from is basically a joke. There are no resources and infrastructure to get a good education.   


